Developer's Journal

Kevin Sikes

Chronicles of a salty researcher and programmer.

2/5/2016

Found out by a YAHOO post that the apps are in something called z80 Assembly. It also said that I need the SDK from Texas Instruments to make apps. Several
 of the links didn't work. Only one that did led to a tutorial for the wrong calculator.

TI 84 “source developer’s kit” (https://education.ti.com/en-GB/uk/products/software-development-kits-sdk)
THER IS NO SDK FOR IT! JUST A DOWNLOAD FOR A GUIDE! SSSSSSSSSSAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAALLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLTTTTTTTTTTTTT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I wasted an hour to find this out and looking for a download from multiple websites.

Have to make program and use BASIC converter. It might be interesting to learn how to use BASIC.

The program can be done on calculator or using an emulator, but of course THERE IS NO SIMPLE WAY TO GET THE OS!!!!!!
Ok. I can get the OS by using a program to copy it from a calculator.

(http://www.ticalc.org/archives/files/fileinfo/321/32127.html) Link to basic builder

(http://tibasicdev.wikidot.com/basicbuilder) Link for tutorials and help

Can also be programed in assembly (http://wikiti.brandonw.net/index.php?title=84PCSE:OS:Applications)

I also started working on figuring out how to move files using Java.

2/14/2016

Apparently I am going to just have to program the app directly on my calculator. That won't be too dificult, but it will be anoying. This 
is due to the dificulty of retriveing the OS from the calculator. I also started playing with the BASIC builder to conver programs into 
apps. Apparently, what it actually does is you can put multiple programs with pictures into one app. I also need to figure out what the 
picture format is for the calculator. And I need to do more research with the bulder, because when I tried to put the app on the calculator
, it said it was imcompatible, even though it was the same format the other apps were in. Apparently either TI connect can't transfer apps,
didn't like the file, or the calculator didn't like the file. Basicaly, lots of things don't like each other at the moment. If things go 
south, I could possibly just try to shove all of the programs into one with LOTS of Gotos and, if possible for programs, I will try to add 
a GUI. But I will most likely will be able to make things work with enough reaserching. One thing that might have to happen is that I find 
a way to force the transfer. If worst comes to worst with that part, I can have a backup of the calculator ready if it compleatly breaks.

2/21/16

I found an online BASIC editor that allows you to select the calculator type. It can make program files but not app files. It can create
AppVar files for storing variables for later use and can't be changed without being edited, which could be useful. My best bet is using the
BASIC editor I found already, but i am still not sure how to make it work properly. I have started creating the program and the auto
-installer / File Mover. The only problem that I am currently having is trying to figure out how the file should be formated when outputed 
by the builder, and where to move the file. the calculator didn't show up in the file explorer, so I am going to have to try and research 
that.

2/18/16

I haven't found where the calculator is actually located yet, but I have figured out how to move files with java. I have also worked alot on
the program itself. So far I have made around 6 menus and programed in formulas for kinematics, rotational kinematics, and the Range,
momentum, and angular momentum equations also. I also have made formulas for kinetic energy and rotational kinetic energy. They all include
units and breaks up the equation for the user to easly see what is going on. I also found that in the ti connect files, there are several 
OS for several different calculators. It is coming along nicely now.

3/6/16

For some reason, but it could just by my cord, my calculator hates staying connected to my computer. I still need to find where the calculator 
is located on the computer. The program is coming along nicely. I have added equations for force with their units. I have also made it so the 
final units are displayed after the calculation, such as Newtons for force. I havn't had time to play around with the BASIC builder due to 
homework and Norton. For some reason NOW it decides it is a threat and keept removing it. Didn't help my time situation. Made Norton stop so 
I shouldn't have any more troubles with it. All I have left to do for formulas now is waves. After that everything is going to get VERY anoying.

3/14/16

I started adding waves into the physics program. I added the v= f*lambda equation and just need to add units. I found a program online that will search for things plugged into my computer l, and I hope it can find the calculator. Then all I have to find out is how to take its output and insert it into the auto installer. I still need to figure out how to use the basic editor, but I haven't had much time.

3/28/16

I har my wisdome theeth out last week, so I really didn't get much done. I found 2 lbl errors in the program, and other than adding the equations for magnitisum, it is close to done. I found out that apparently for the BASIC editor, you need to sign the file with the SDK. I am trying to read through their manual about the SDK they dont have for downloading trying to figure thind out. The people who made the texas instrumits website did a horrible job.

4/2/16

I can't really deal with all of these setbacks anymore. Trying to deal with texas instrumints and everything else is difficult. I am basically going to not make it into an app anymore, and I am not going to make the auto-intsaller. since it won't be an app, it will be easy to transfer using Ti-connect(one of the few things that isn't horrible to try and download) or just through calculators. To replace what i cannot do, I will be adding more to the program. I will try to make a Kircoff's law 3x3 circut solver. I already have the gui planed and the basic layout of what i am going to do, and included it as an instructions tab right by it. I still also need to add magnitisum to the program, and if there is time, I might look into thermal or optics. Judging by the time I might only be able to add 1 of them as extra or none at all if the solver is foing to take as long as i think it will.

4/10/16

I finished the programs for magnitisum, and the program is mostly finished now. all i have to work on is the circut solver, or anything 
else i might decide to add. I'm not sure how well the solver will work or if i will be able to finish it. It is one thing trying to program
something knowing about it in advance, but trying to figure out how iwant to do this last minute might be very difficult. I just need to 
moke sure i watch for edge cases, and that might be one of the harder ones to do. I will probably focus on certain loops first to at least
have it partially working and focus on full 3x3 later.

4/19/16

Sorry that this is a little late. I have alot of things i needed to do. there really isn't much that happend programming wise. I started trying to just program a 2x2 curcit at INL, but then i started realizing the amount of edge cases that it has since resistors can face any way along with batteries and since BASIC is dumb, i can't do things like switch statements and have to have multiple large and nested if statemrnts to try and catch everything. right now it can tell you the ressistance of a circut with 4 resistors pointing in different directions as long as the first one points up or left with no batteries. 

4/24/16

I gave up on the 3x3 solver because it made the algorithum I was using at that time require over 100 if statements for a 2x2 circiut. I did make the 2x2 at least and getting rid of the other variables and such for the 3x3 really simplified the algorythum. There isn't too much left to do now. I will need to have several spell check run throughs, if you coulden't tell by reading this or the repository name. I might change how the instructions are displaied for the solver and app. I can fit alot more text on a graph than on the actual screen and probably shorten the code by alot of commas and ". I will have to make sure that the graph is cleaned afterwords. It might be a good idea to have a graph cleaner in the program to reset zoom, axies, and the background.

5/1/16

I worked a little on the collision finder, but it is still broken. I made a little money off of three people for the app already. a total of ten dollars. I also a a customer who is willing to do a little team up. He is Jacob, and he is going to work on editing the program so it will work on older calculators. Je isn't able to complete it before the AP test, but I am very certain that people will still want it for physics 2.

5/9/16

I think i forgot to talk about this, but i added an extras section to the program, including a graph fixer, default settings loader for the calculator, a list clearer, and a derivitive grapher. the last one i had added recently. I am unsure if i will get the collision solver ready in time, so i made sure that when the option is clicked, it will display "not implimented". i also went through the code and put in comments about the code, like currently used lbls, and what different things do. The way i did this was making sure that comments there will NEVER run  as code with gotos around them. I also made it so when you quit the program it will delete string variables too. I also added a lbl for the new optic equations and the new magnitisum porportion for transformers.